>> Steve Kinney: So, this is a small LED.
The color that you grab does not matter.
You can either choose your favorite color
or you can take the approach I did,
which is choose whichever the first one
you touch is and take it out of the bag.
With a lot of electronic components,
we say that some of them are polarized and
others are non-polarized.
And all that means is in some cases,
the direction matters.
And in other cases,
the direction does not matter.
So, electricity in the circuit will
go from the kind of power source to
the ground.
So we need to complete a circuit.
For non-polarized components, it doesn't
matter which end goes in which part.
For polarized components,
it does matter, right?
An LED is a polarized component, which
means the way you plug it in matters.
Which leads us to the next
question of how do I tell?
If you look very closely at your LED,
you'll notice at one end is
longer than the other end.
That's how you tell [LAUGH].
If you ever forget, then how do you tell?
You Google it, [LAUGH].
For an LED, generally speaking, you'll do
this enough, you'll begin to remember that
the longer end will go to the power and
the shorter end will go to the ground.
Later on, we're gonna be playing
with an RGB LED, which have four,
we'll call them prongs.
I don't think that's the right term but
And they're all different lengths and
the shortest one is not the ground.
And so what you will likely do is look it
up, probably every time that you use it.
Cuz that is what I do and
it seems to be successful for me.
But in this case, the longer end is
gonna go to our power source and
the shorter end is gonna go to the ground.
So, if everyone committed that
diagram I showed earlier to memory,
which I know that you all did.
We all remember that the ground is
the very first input on either port.
So I can take the shorter end.
I can.
>> Speaker 2: Make
sure the camera can see.
>> Steve Kinney: Yeah,
this is a new fun challenge.
Cool, I'm gonna put the shorter
end in that very first port.
And the longer end is going
to go into the 0 port.
If you look very closely at your device,
you'll see that they're labeled GND for
ground, 3v3 for the power source and
then 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7.
So I want the shorter end
to go into the ground and
the longer end to go into the zero port.
>> Steve Kinney: After this,
we'll actually be connecting
jumper wires to these ports and
it will be a little bit easier.
Cuz you can imagine, if I had a LED in the
other port, one had to go into port seven,
doing it like this is not really
feasible because it's not long enough.
So we'll use a bread
board in a little bit.
But for now, we're just gonna plug
it directly into the board, cool.